---
layout: post
title:  "Why would a rabbi learn to code?"
date:   2017-05-02 19:48:21 +0000
---


The question seemed straightforward enough. I was near the beginning of my admissions interview to the **Flatiron School's [online full stack web development program](https://flatironschool.com/programs/online-web-developer-career-course/)** and the interviewer simply asked, "*Why would a rabbi want to learn how to code?*" For the past nearly 10 years I have worked in diverse settings in the Jewish non-profit space, from campus chaplaincy to congregational work to community organizing. I have been called upon to design promotional materials, use social media and created more Excel spreadsheets than I could ever count (*although I bet I could make an Excel formula to count them*), but not once have I needed to design a program, write code in Javascript or create an app. So, why start? 


The answer I gave during the interview was that coding and the work of a rabbi are actually very similar. They utilize different toolkits but they share a common feature. Both in the rabbinate and in programming, the professional is faced with a problem/challenge/issue and she or he must develop a way forward to address that area. In the rabbinate the challenge could be that people across generations are not interacting with each other in your community. What plan do you build that will correct that challenge? What does your roadmap look like? What are all the steps you must take to achieve your desired result? Can you test your solution and does it work? If not, what about it did not work? What needs to be fixed so you can try again? As a programmer, the same questions must be asked and a roadmap must be developed to address a need, problem, challenge or issue. It could be that you see a gap in the marketplace of apps, something that will help people in a specific way, and you want to fill that gap. How do you go about doing that? What will your roadmap of steps be? How will you test it to make sure it works and what will you do when something goes wrong? 

I have always been interested in technology from my childhood onwards. Before pursuing a career in the rabbinate, I was an active member of the San Diego computer scene in the mid to late '90s. I, along with my childhood best friend, created a local computer security meetup, a BSD users group, a small computer security consulting firm and eventually the largest computer security conference in Southern California, which has now been around for more than 18 years. My father brought home a desktop PC when I was in elementary school and asked if I wanted to take it apart and see how it worked so while I have a great love for the work of communal service and the rabbinate, it has not been my only professional love. I am excited to reenter the technology space and especially grateful to do it through the Flatiron School and its verified, tested and indendently reviewed curriculum and graduation results. 

Programming is ultimately about taking an idea and turning it into reality. It is about designing solutions that benefit people in their daily lives. Learning the skills to code is not just about acquiring a new skill but it is also about becoming empowered to tackle problems and to actualize new ideas. This is why I am learning to code. I will share snapshots of my journey on this blog and hope you can come along for the ride.
